Khyentse Wangpo is one of the great Tibetan students. Khyentse Wangpo was born in 1820,
in East Tibet. His father was known as 'Arokraksa' family, family or the secretary of the king of
Delhi,
Delgi Rekhimwadya. His mother's name is Sosa Sonansu, and he was born in the 1820s.
The moment he was born and that moment that six of Mahakala and Ekachadis are always with him,
he was always at that feeling. The moment he began to speak him, he was so smart. He was so smart,
immediately he understood everything. So he is a genius. And every book or read something in it,
one time he read and he completely understood the meaning and word of memorization. At age 21,
then he ordered in the medallic monastery as fully ordered monks. So he was one of the great
masters.
Then he received so many teaching from so many masters, one after another. And the moment he
received,
he understood everything. He had what is called a photograph of memories, memories, everything.
So in the teachings, he contracted with over 150 masters. And where he learned the language,
that means grandmas or the Muslim tongue is indicating language means Sanskrit. And then as well as
geometry and the medicines and the logic and or reasoning that he learned. And then all the Buddha
's
teachings such as Vinaya, Abhidhana, Sutra, Mademaka, Pandya Paramata, all that he learned,
he just become so masters. And so therefore, at the same time, he says, what he learned immediately
,
he really understood that. And also he put that into the practices, according to the teaching,
that he put practice, so not just to let that. And when he practiced that and when he received the
teaching, he was also so devoted. So devoted. He don't have any discrimination, anything,
any schools of the Buddhism, everything. And even born religions, he respect, he received the
teachings. So he become therefore, he become the master of all, all the schools of Buddhism. So in
what he received, he received, really here, this is I'm reading that his own like written book,
and it is it as new makama in 10 months, and it is it all the teachings of the kadam, new kadam,
and old kadam. New kadam means, old kadam means that kadam schools start from the atishas, that
teaching, and new means from the tungkabas, great tungkabas. And then from Sathya schools, and from
kadams, and kadams, that means that particularly, kind of particular lineage of the kadams. And
then
dogong kadams, talong kadams, dokka kadams, and choyar, choyar, every schools that really he
received,
and all the other teachings, and everything he didn't kind of left that as insignificant,
everything took so important, important. So this is a great master of the false chintze. And then
he reactivated, re-glorified, always in the teachings said that nine, or sorry, at practice
of lineage. This is at practice of lineage, he re-glorified. And who are they? I will listen to
that. At practice of lineage. And those are known as first the new mak, new mak practice, new mak.
Second is known as kadam, kadam ba, that is kadam. And third is known as satya or the lambda,
lambda,
lambda is a very famous teaching of the Sathya school, path and the resolve, path and resolve,
but is satya schools. And the fourth is marpakadu, kadu of marpak. And then next one is then kadu
of
shampakadu, because why they called marpakadu and shampakadu? Because there's two kadus in the
practice of lineage. So marpakadu is the old kadu schools. Kadu school is big, old, and shampakadu,
kadu. And then next one is known as the practice of lineage, of the Kalachakra lineage. Those are
known as the six different application practice of lineage. And the next one is, I think I hope
this is it. What I said is seven. What you said is six. Next one is pacifying and new practices
that
mainly comes from the path dambasanghi, famous Indian great master and the magic labra dambasanghi.
So it's june and shivzi lineage. And the next one is then durgisong, three regular practices. Now
is it it?
Yes. No? Yes. Yes. Shouldn't shivzi one or two? I think june shivzi one. Still missing one?
This one was eight. What? Last one was eight. Okay so it's as they were taken in.
So then that's it. Those are known as the practice of lineage. So really glorified that
at practice. That includes entirely like entirely teachings of the of the Buddha, the practice
lineage. Those are the eight. At lineage. And then the post chenzi is the master of the seven again
of designated or authorized by seven. And those are the first is known as all the teachings that
came
in his memories. All they just one up another. Whether the sutta, whether that and teaching all
is come as pulgraphic memories. Those are known as post designated or post power. Maybe I should
use power. Post power of the knowledge is first. Second knowledge is known as then power is known
as then the old the art dharma teachings. So it becomes the master of the art dharma. That what
we discover dharma from the earth. And third is that he is known known as the rediscovering
dharma teachings of the earth. That means some dharma teachings come early but the teaching
disappeared somehow disappeared. But according to dharma teachings even they disappeared
and the reality even they disappeared in the human world. But the teaching will really stay
in those the spiritual world. That is not disappeared. Also this teaching will remain
with this pen of the dharma artists. The old human manuscript will remain according to the teaching
.
So he rediscover is rediscovering dharma teachings. And fourth I believe fourth is known as then
the pure vegan powers. Power of the pure vegans. And many power again he is one of the master of
the tirtum with pure vegans that he discovered. And the next one is the power of the riva.
Remembering or re remembering. So the recollecting of the memories of that power of the reconnect
ing
memories. So that is how many now? Five. And the next one is pure vegan power of the pure vegan
leanings. So that is six pure vegan leanings. Number four was pure vision. Oh I say we knew. I said
pure vegan. Okay satara.
Also I said one of those now you put maybe I try to put all that but one of those
mind tenmas. What's the mind tenmas? Put that mind. What's the mind tenmas? Now what? Now if you
finish
six. Finish six. And now I have to put seven. Seven is known as then the whispering power of the
whispering leanings. That means again it's part of the pure vegan. Vegan but it is from great
master
or great western recognition. So there are other great masters are kind of in a way whispering.
So those all seven are known as seven powers of the person. So he is the master and who glorified
at the practice of leanings and who hold the seven powers or cover the knee.
I translate also called the knee as what's called a designated two. So seven designated powers.
So that is really about the first chances. And then he entered Mahaparin nirvana and Mahaparin nir
vana
1892. He entered Mahaparin nirvana 1892. And then now I talk a little bit about the first grade